So today's agenda.
I want to cover Prerequisites and WordPress defaults,
so that's going to be the first section of the day
and then we'll get into a longer section,
WordPress Accessibility for Developers.
So if you're developing a site using a theme of any sort,
whether you're a theme developer or not,
we'll cover content for you.
And then we'll get into
WordPress Accessibility for Content Authors
after we break for lunch.
We're going to get into the prerequisites, now,
for what we feel like you need to know
to spend the day with us.
As we go through these prerequisites,
I'm not going to go into detail.
I'm assuming that you know most of this stuff.
If you don't, that is A-Okay and you can raise an issue
in Q & A or in chat privately, if you want,
and we can expand on any of these topics.
So, what is accessibility?
I hope most of you that are here know this,
but just for us to frame the conversation today
and the training.
Accessibility to me and to, I would say,
most of us at Knowbility, if not all of us,
is that accessibility is a barrier-free experience
that anyone can have regardless of ability or disability.
So it means that our work is usable by all.
It is enjoyable by all.
It's not, accessibility isn't something extra.
It's something that we bake into what we do
to make sure that our work is inclusive
and does not present barriers to folks.
There are some key accessibility principles
that are very important to know
and if you think about these principles,
these 4 guiding principles,
in the context of any of your accessibility work
or any of your design and development work,
you will succeed greatly.
And these 4 accessibility principles are perceivable,
so everything has to be able to be seen or heard
or experienced in some way.
So that guides all of the
1 level accessibility guidelines
from the web content accessibility guidelines.
So when you see 1.3.1, that falls under perceivable.
Then the next one is operable.
So anything that you can operate in one method
must be operable in all methods.
So, say you can point and click at something with a mouse.
You can also use a keyboard
or an alternative input device for that
so you can operate the interface.
Anyone can do that without a barrier to that.
And so, all of the 2.x.x,
so 2.1.1 or 2.2.2,
those guidelines fall under the operable principle.
Then the next principle is understandable.
So, any of the content that's presented to users
must be understandable.
Pretty self-explanatory.
Those are the 3. WCAG guideline levels.
And then robust is the last principle
and that one makes up the 4. WCAG guidelines.
So that acronym for the principles is P-O-U-R, POUR.
They're highly valuable to me and to everyone that I know
working in accessibility to keep in mind
because I do not have the WCAG guidelines memorized.
I know a few of them but, if I understand these principles,
then I can look up guidelines and I can verify
and confirm accessibility issues that I feel like
might cause somebody trouble and then document them
according to what the actual guidelines are.
So those principles are extremely important.
The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, so WCAG.
You'll hear me throw out terms like WCAG or
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines or even A11Y,
which is short hand for accessibility.
There are 11 letters in between the A and the Y
in the word accessibility.
So WCAG, just understanding, in general, what it is,
where to find the information for that.
The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
is published by the W3C, so that is something
that is very important to know.
Then having general WordPress knowledge, of course,
since this is a WordPress training.
We need to understand how to,
how to build WordPress sites in general.
Even if its something like using a host
to do a one-click install of your WordPress site
and then logging in, right?
That is general WordPress knowledge.
Obviously, if you have additional WordPress knowledge,
that will help you greatly.
Familiarity and Comfort with F.E.D.
So Front End Design or Front End Development.
So Front End Design and Development
is a combination of technologies.
We frequently use F.E.D. to represent
HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
So those are the technologies that power the web
and that is something that is very important,
at least for this developer portion of the course.